Task 3

New version:
The genetic information stored in DNA cannot be directly converted into proteins as the cellular protein factory (ribosomes) only read the instruction in the form of RNA. Although RNA is chemically similar to DNA, it contains Uracil instead of Thymine. A Central Dogma process known as transcription is important for converting the sequence of bases in DNA into RNA message.

Step 1: Use a for-loop to determine the complementary mRNA base of each DNA base given by the user: A-U and G-C. 
Step 2: Form an mRNA sequence by adding all the complementary bases of the DNA sequence. 

The result:
Print the mRNA sequence. 

Old version:
Explain the problem and biological importance:
The genetic information stored in DNA cannot be directly converted into proteins as the cellular protein factory ¨C ribosomes only read instruction in the form of RNA. Therefore, a Central Dogma process known as transcription is important for converting the sequences of bases in DNA into RNA messages. 

The approach you took:
    1. Request user input of DNA sequence.
    2. Compute complementary base-pairing: A to U, C to G, G to C and T to A.
    3. For each deoxynucleotide in DNA, add its complimentary base to a string variable. 

The result:
Print the mRNA sequence. 


Task 4

Translation, one of the steps in Central Dogma converts a sequence of mRNA bases into a chain of amino acids. A group of 3 mRNA bases called codon encodes for a specific amino acid. Codon can also signal the beginning (start codon) and end (stop codon) of the translation.

Step 1: Return the index position to the first occurrence of AUG. 
Step 2: Use a for-in-range loop with a step size of 3 to loop through the mRNA sequence and access 3 elements at the same time. 
Step 3: If the codon encodes an amino acid, its 1-letter-code will be retrieved from the dictionary and used to form a new sequence of amino acids. 
Step 5: If the codon signals stop, the loop will terminate and print out the sequence of amino acids.
Step 6: If there is no start and or stop codon, an error message will appear.

The result:
Print the sequence of amino acids. 


Old version:
Explain the problem and biological importance:
Translation, one of the steps in Central Dogma converts sequences of bases in mRNA into chains of amino acids.

The approach you took
    1. Request user input of mRNA sequence.
    2. Continue the process if the input only contains the letters: A, U, G and C.
    3. Return the index position of the first occurrence of AUG.
    4. To loop through the mRNA sequence and access 3 elements at the same time, use for in range with step size of 3. The 3 elements will form a codon.
    5. Retrieve the amino acid 1-letter code of the codon from a dictionary.
    6. For each codon in mRNA, add its 1-letter code to a string variable.

The result:
Show the amino acids sequence in the string variable to the screen. 